---
title: "ENGG2760 Course Review"
date: 2024-12-25
last_modified_at: 2025-02-01
permalink: /posts/cuhk-course-review/2024/12/ENGG2760/
excerpt: ""
toc: true
tags:
  - Course Review
hidden: true
author_profile: false
---

Term Taken: 2024 Fall

Instructor: Prof. Farzan Farnia

### Grading Scheme
* Quiz: 30%
* Midterm: 30%
* Final: 40%

### Textbook
* Dimitri P. Bertsekas and John N. Tsitsiklis, "Introduction to Probability", Athena Scientific, 2nd Edition, 2008
* Sheldon M. Ross, "A First Course in Probability", Pearson, 9th Edition, 2014
* Richard A. Johnson, Irwin Miller, and John E. Freund, "Probability and Statistics for Engineers", Pearson, 9th Edition, 2017

### Review
To be honest, I was not going to write a review for this course since I don’t really have much to say, and this is one of the courses that I could not manage to perform well in, lol. But as I am now learning ENGG2780, the statistics course, I realized the importance of probability, which serves as the foundation for this course. So, I used the Lunar New Year holiday to catch up on the content and write this course review.  

This course introduces the fundamentals of probability, such as counting principles, discrete and continuous random variables, and so on. Discrete probability is actually quite simple, but when it comes to continuous random variables, it sometimes involves calculus manipulations. So, for the final, it might be helpful to write down some integration tips for your own reference.  

The instructor’s teaching is quite informative—at least most of my revision was done by watching the recordings and taking notes. But it was also kind of rushed; for example, there was an extra lecture in week 12, and for the last few topics of the course, such as the weak law of large numbers and the central limit theorem, I don’t really think the explanations were sufficient. Other than that, everything was fine.

### Resource
I have adapted the content from the lecture notes and some online resources and made a note for this course. I’m not sure if everything is clear and correct, as I’m not qualified or intending to create notes for others to use. But just for recapping the content, I think writing notes this way is quite helpful. You can refer to my notes <a href="https://ryanc.wtf/files/ENGG2760.pdf" target="_blank">here</a>.